Yeast is a type of fungus.
The type that usually causes
vaginal yeast infections is called
Candida albicans,
or C. albicans for short.
This fungus can live harmlessly on the skin,
and in the mouth, digestive tract, and vagina.
Its growth in the vagina is usually
kept under control by certain
kinds of bacteria that also live there.
But sometimes the balance
between these organisms is upset.
For example,
antibiotics can kill the normal,
protective bacteria
and allow yeast to multiply.
The yeast can form an irritating layer
in the lining of the vagina,
leading to itching, burning,
and a white discharge that can
look like cottage cheese.